Volcano Project Security Self-Assessment - Security Pals (#1184)
cncf/tag-security: assessments/projects/volcano/self-assessment.md

- Discuss: Cryptography: How does Volcano manage cryptographic keys and certificates?
- Discuss: Multi-tenancy: How does Volcano handle resource isolation and security in a multi-tenant environment?
- Discuss: Multi-tenancy: Can you describe any multi-tenancy security challenges that have been encountered and how they were resolved?
- Discuss: Secrets Management: Is Kubernetes Secrets used for Secret Management? For securing daily release workflow and release chart workflow secrets. What is used for securing admission secret, image pull secret?
- Discuss: Storage: Does Volcano store any sensitive job data? Is [CSCI Storage?](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2019/01/15/container-storage-interface-ga/) used? Is [Dedicated Volume?](https://github.com/volcano-sh/volcano/blob/master/docs/design/dedicated-volume.md) used?
- Discuss: Logging: Is logging done only using kubectl logs? Is it sufficient to detect an attack or mis-behaviour of Volcano components?
- Discuss: Security Testing: Other than CodeQL, is there any other security testing used in the development or deployment process?
- Discuss if there are any known security issues or limitations with the current version of Volcano.

> - Improve OpenSSF best practices badge from 5/10 to 10/10 by implementing the following tasks:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improve OpenSSF Scorecard result by implementing the following tasks:
```
Looks like this is discussing [Scorecard](https://securityscorecards.dev/), not [Best Practices](https://www.bestpractices.dev/en). 

Also, 10/10 might be an impractical goal to document. When I was working with the Scorecard maintainers earlier this year they said nobody anywhere has gotten a perfect 10/10 score.

> # Self-assessment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Volcano Self-assessment
```

Authors: Mayank Ramnani (@mayank-ramnani), Anish Vempaty (@anish-vempaty), Francis Gabriel Delamerced (@fdg238), Ruthvik Akula, George Gonzalez

Contributors/Reviewers: Pranava Kumar Vemula (@Rana-KV)

The Self-assessment is the initial document for Volcano to begin thinking about the security of the project, determining gaps in its security, and preparing any security documentation for their users.

> # Self-assessment outline

Reviewer 3: All web content should only have a single H1 entry (#)

### Actors

![Architechture Diagram of Volcano](arch.png)
1. Users: Individuals or systems that interact with Volcano for job management. This could include administrators who configure the system, users who submit jobs, and any external systems that interface with Volcano.
2. Volcano Scheduler: The core component responsible for scheduling tasks. It makes decisions about job placement and resource allocation in the Kubernetes cluster.
3. Volcano API Server: Handles requests and responses between users and the Volcano scheduler. It's a critical interface and thus a separate actor due to its role in processing and validating job submissions.
4. Kubernetes Cluster: While Volcano operates within Kubernetes, the cluster itself can be considered a separate actor. It manages the resources that Volcano schedules jobs onto and enforces access controls.
5. Integrated Systems: Any external systems or tools that Volcano integrates with (e.g., TensorFlow, PyTorch, etc.). These are separate actors as they are external yet interact closely with Volcano.

### Actions

> 1. User Interaction with Volcano

Reviewer 3: Would be good to include which actor(s) is involved in these actions, and if there are any checks performed by the system. Here is an example to do so - https://github.com/cncf/tag-security/blob/main/assessments/guide/self-assessment.md#actions

Author: Added specific actors for each action and the security checks performed as part of it.

## Project compliance
Not Applicable.

## Secure development practices

- Development Pipeline
    + Contributor Sign-off: Contributors to Volcano are required to sign off on their commits as part of a [Developer Certificate of Origin](https://probot.github.io/apps/dco/) (DCO).
    + Code Review Process: Volcano employs a rigorous [code review process](https://github.com/volcano-sh/volcano/blob/master/contribute.md#code-review), with [multiple maintainers](https://github.com/volcano-sh/volcano/blob/master/MAINTAINERS.md) from different organizations and automated checks using [CodeQL](https://github.com/volcano-sh/volcano/actions/workflows/codeql-analysis.yml). This ensures high standards of code quality and security.
    + Automated Testing and CI/CD: The project utilizes continuous integration and deployment pipelines, including [automated testing](https://github.com/volcano-sh/volcano/blob/master/contribute.md#testing) for vulnerabilities and code quality checks.
    + Container Image Security: If Volcano uses containerized deployments, assess whether the container images are signed and immutable, which adds a layer of security against tampering.

>     + Dependency Management: The project should regularly update its dependencies and check for vulnerabilities using tools like OWASP Dependency-Check or similar.

Author: I agree these should be in the recommendations section. 
Fixed.

- [Volcano has achieved A+ quality as an open source Go project.](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/volcano-sh/volcano)

### Links
- [Volcano Usage and Adopters](https://github.com/volcano-sh/volcano/blob/master/docs/community/adopters.md)
- [Volcano Bug Reporting Guidelines](https://github.com/volcano-sh/volcano/blob/master/docs/getting-started/reporting_bugs.md)

### Case Studies
- [Using Volcano in Large-Scale, Distributed Offline Computing](https://volcano.sh/en/blog/ruitian2-en/)
- [ING Bank: How Volcano Empowers Their Big Data Analytics Platform](https://volcano.sh/en/blog/ing_case-en/)
- [How Does Volcano Empower a Content Recommendation Engine in Xiaohongshu](https://volcano.sh/en/blog/xiaohongshu-en/)
- [How Ruitian Used Volcano to Run Large-Scale Offline HPC Jobs](https://volcano.sh/en/blog/ruitian-en/)

### Related Talks
- [The Linux Foundation Talk: Using Volcano and Kubernetes for Cutting-Edge AI Deployment](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hjfoEdMD3cI)
- [CNCF Talk (Chinese): Volcano Helps FinTech BigData on K8s](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wYEmjqPbjjY)

> ## Action Items

Reviewer 3: This section is to provide recommendations to the team to improve their security posture. Please remove pointers that aren't relevant.

Author: Removed some points and fixed the language of other points.
